
# `examples-dsi`

This README.md file provides further information on the memory graph examples in
`.dot` format. These `.dot` files have been extracted from a running program
using the DSI tool. The tool and the obtained memory graphs are further detailed
in [*D.H. White, T. Rupprecht, and G. LÃ¼ttgen. DSI: An evidence-based approach
to identify dynamic data structures in C programs. In Software Testing and
Analysis (ISSTA â€™16), pages 259â€“269. ACM,
2016.*](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/2931037.2931071). Symbol 'ðŸ”¨' indicates
that an example cannot be transformed into the memory graph format required by
ShaPE automatically.

## `sll_0.dot`, `sll_2.dot`, `sll_4.dot`, `sll_5.dot`, `sll_6.dot`, `sll_8.dot`

Standard singly linked list; NULL terminated.

## `sll_7.dot` & `sll_9.dot` ðŸ”¨

The shape of this simple singly-linked list cannot be learnred automatically,
because the longest running entry pointer points to the last node of the list.
Hence, the previous nodes are unreachable and a predicate cannot be synthesized.
A manual adjustment of the entry pointer, i.e., the first instead of the last
list node, solves the problem. Selecting the entry pointer based on a simple
reachability analysis would solve this issue. Ideas on heuristics for entry
pointer selection are discussed in the translation script `dsi2json.py`.

## `treeadd.dot` ðŸ”¨

Contains two disjunct binary-trees that are merged together during the program
execution. So far, the `dsi2json.py` script does not correctly label graphs with
multiple entry pointers, hence, only a single entry pointer is created causing
an learnence to fail, because nodes are unreachable. A manual translation
containing two entrypoints is present as well.

## `binary-trees-debian.dot` ðŸ”¨

Essentially the same as the `binary-tree` example. However, the heuristics for
picking the right node as the entry to the graph does not work here. Hence,
manual adjustment is requried.

## `binary-tree.dot`

A simple binary tree; NULL terminated.

## ``dll_5.dot``

A simple DLL; NULL terminated.

## `dll-insert-middle.dot`

A simple DLL where the longest running entry pointer points to a node in the
middle; NULL terminated.

## `two-dlls-direct.dot`

A DLL where list nodes contain duplicate next and prev pointers. ShaPEâ€™s node
abstraction pruning is key, because it identifies that only three out of the
approx. 360 node abstractions need to be considered for the rule search.

## `weiss-sll-cut1.dot`

A simple singly linked list; NULL terminated.

## `weiss-stack-cut1.dot`

A simple singly linked list; NULL terminated.

## `wolf-dll.dot`

A simple DLL; NULL terminated.

## `wolf-queue-cut1.dot`

A simple DLL; NULL terminated.
